It's time for another Dangerous Aside.
Now that we understand function
constructors, built-in function
constructors, and how they can be used in
libraries and frameworks to add features.
We just wanna mention about arrays and
for in.
Do you remember what we did in
the lesson on reflection and extend.
Where we looped through all of
the properties and methods on an object.
Well, arrays are objects, and
we can do the same thing.
Let's say I have an array of names.
And then I'll do what we did before,
I'll use the for, in.
And that's going to go through all of the
properties and methods here on this array.
And let's see what we get.
Because an array is an object so
I can use it like an object.
There we go.
Interesting right?
Arrays in Javascript are a bit different
than they are in other languages.
When I reference zero, one, two,
and pointing at a particular
item in the array list.
That zero, one, and
two is actually the name.
The property name on the name value pair,
which is why I can use
brackets to grab it.
So 0, 1, 2 is the property name and
these are the values.
So looping across this worked.
But the fact that an array is an object.
And that each of it's items
is a named value pair.
That each item becomes a new property,
I've added three properties essentially,
to this array.
Means, that there's a bit of
a problem if somewhere else.
I have some nice framework that
adds some features to my arrays.
So I'll just do my custom feature.
Who knows what this could be?
This could be some to do with arrays.
And it adds it to the array.prototype.
Because this object literal is
calling essentially new array.
It's just a shorthand for doing that.
So this prototype points at
array.prototype as
the prototype of this object.
And there we have the problem.
If I refresh,
I get dot extra property when I use 4n.
So, in the case of arrays don't use 4n,
use instead the standard I or
whatever your iterator is, the length.
And then, a standard four loop.
That's safe.
However, iterating overall
properties is not safe
because arrays are objects and
you could iterate down into the prototype.
So this is generally avoided in JavaScript
because arrays are objects in JavaScript,
and their items are added properties.
Got that?
Just wanted to make mention now
that we understand all the pieces.